AMERICA AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR
WHICH IT STANDS -- RECORDING IN
PROGRESS.
>> THANK YOU OFFICER I
APPRECIATE THAT.  I WILL LEAD
WITH A ROLL CALL VOTE.  TRUSTEE
SAL DA VAIR IS GOING TO JOIN US
LATE.  TRUSTEE WILSON.
THANK
YOU.  TRUSTEE BROUSSARD IS
ABSENT.  TRUSTEE STOMA.
ONLINE.  TRUSTEE MEZA.  TRUSTEE
MURILLO.  TRUSTEE VOG
T.
IMPRESS HE WANT AND WE HAVE A
CORE YOU MEAN.  CHANCELLOR
CASTILLO HAS THE NOTICE BEEN
POSTED.
>>CHANCELLOR CASTILLO: I
CERTIFY IT HAS BEEN POSTED --
>> ANYONE SIGNED UP TO OFFER
PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> WE HAVE TWO PUB LIB SEEGERS
TODAY.  FIRST IS DR. BURG
OFF.
IN ACCORDANCE WITH WORD POLICY
EACH PEEKER IS ALOUD 5 MINUTES
WHEN THE LIGHT TURNS RED YOUR
LIGHT IS EXPIRED.
>> GOOD MORNING. I AM
PRESIDENT OF THE AMERICAN
FEDERATION OF TEACHERS AT LONE
STAR.  I HOPE THE SCHOOL YEAR
IS OFF TO A GREAT START FOR
EVERYONE IN THE ROOM.  TODAY I
WOULD HEADACHE TO ADDRESS TWO
TOPICS.  ONE OF THEM ON TODAYAS
AGENDA AND ONE THAT IS NOT.
ACTION ITEM 5 AUTHORIZES THE
CHANCELLOR TO ESTABLISH
PREVAILING WAGE RATES FOR
PHYSICAL YEAR 2026 IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE DEPARTMENT
OF LABOR DAVIS BACON ACT.  IT
HAS BEEN LONE STAR POLICY FOR
NUMBER OF YEARS TO REQUIRE
OUTSIDE EMPLOYER OUTSIDE OF THE
COLLEGE TO PAY THE WORKERS A
TARIFF WAGE AND PREVAILING
WAGES FOR RESPECTIVE CRAFTS
ASSET FOR THE HOUSTON AREA BY
THE DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.  THIS
IS A COMMITMENT THAT WAS ASKED
OF DR. HEAD TO CONSIDER YEARS
AGO AND WE DON'T WANT TO MISS
AN OPPORTUNITY TO EXPRESS OUR
SUPPORT AND GRATITUDE THAT THIS
PRACTICE IS STANDARD OPERATING
PROCEEDER AT LONE STAR.
ADOPTING PREVAILING WAGES
AFFIRMS THE SOLIDARITY WITH ALL
OF OUR WORKING WROTES AND
SISTERS ACROSS THE REGION.
MANY OF WHOM ARE THE STUDENTS
OR PARENTS OF THE STUDENTS.  WE
IN THE UNION BELIEVE THANK THE
ONE LONE STAR PRINCIPLE
INCLUDES COMMITTING TO A LIVE
ABLE WAGE FOR EVERYONE
ASSOCIATED WITH THE COLLEGE.
WHETHER EMPLOYED DIRECTLY BY
THE COLLEGE OR CONTRACTORS WHO
WANT TO BE ASSOCIATED WITH US.
ALTHOUGH AN ACTION ITEM LIKE
THIS NOW ROUTINELY APPEARS ON
THE AGENDA ABOUT THIS TIME OF
YEAR, THE AFT WANTS YOU TO KNOW
THAT WE APPRECIATE THIS
COMMITMENT AND THAT WE SUPPORT
THIS PRACTICE WHOLEHEARTEDLY.
I WANT TO SHIFT GEARS TO AN
UPCOMING PROHIBITION FROM
AUSTIN IN ORDER TO COMMEND THE
BOARD AND ADMINISTRATION FOR
WISELY TAKING ACTIONS IN THE
PAST THAT WILL REDUCE THE
NEGATIVE IMPACT ON STUDENTS AND
EMPLOYEES IN THE FUTURE.  I AM
SPEAKING OF SENATE BILL 8 WHICH
HAS BEEN PASSED PIPET HOUSES OF
THE LEGISLATURE AND AWAITS THE
GOVERNOR'S SIGNATURE.  THIS IS
THE SO-CALLED BATHROOM BILL
WHICH REQUIRES TRANSGENDER
PEOPLE TO USE THE BATHROOMS AND
TRESSING ROOMS CORRESPONDING TO
THEIR GENDER AT BIRTH.
VIOLATIONS WILL BE ACCOMPANIED
BOY HEFTY FINES NOT BY THE
INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED BUT BY THE
COLLEGE.  I AM GRATEFUL AND
PROUD THAT LONE STAR COLLEGE
MADE A CONSCIOUS AND PROACTIVE
DECISION A FEW YEARS AGO THAT
ALL ALL NEW COLLEGE BUILDINGS
WOULD INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE
GENDER NEUTRAL SINGLE OCCUPANCY
BATHROOM AND THAT AS SOON AS
PRACTICAL ALL EXISTING
BUILDINGS WOULD BE RETROFITTED
TO INCLUDE ONE.  IN FACT IF
THIS EFFORT IS NOT COMPLETE
SYSTEM WIDE I BELIEVE IT IS
VERY CLOSE.  THAT'S BATHROOMS
PROVIDE A SAFE AND DIGNIFIED
ALTERNATIVE FOR TRANSGENDER
STUDENTS AND EMPLOYEES AND ALSO
ARE A BENEFIT TO OTHERS
INCLUDING PARENTS WHO NEED TO
BRING SMALL CHILDREN ON CAMPUS
AND DISABLED PERSONS WHO NEED
ASSISTANCE AND HAVE CAREGIVERS
OF A DIFFERENT GENDER.  WE NEED
TO BE CERTAIN THAT THE
LOCATIONS OF THESE PATH ROOMS
ARE WELL PUBLICIZED.  I KNOW
THERE ARE MANY STRONGLY HELD
POINTS OF VIEW RELATED TO THIS
ISSUE.  WHAT DISTRESSES ME IS
THAT AD MIST ALL OF THE DEBATE
THE HUMANITY A OF PEOPLE GETS
FORGOTTEN.  I SERVED FOR MANY
YEARS AS CHAIR OF THE
MATHEMATICS AT LSC CY-FAIR.
DURING MY AT THE PRESENT OR WE
EMPLOYED TWO TRANSGENDER
ADJUNCT INSTRUCTORS BOTH OF
WHOM WERE TALENTED, DEDICATED
AND TALENTED TEACHERS.  EVERY
SEMESTER NEAR THE END OF THE
PANDEMIC AND THIS PAST SPRING I
HAVE HAD AT LEAST ONE TRANS
GENDER STUDENT IN MY CLASSES
EVERY SEMESTER.  THIS IS NOT
SURPRISING SINCE TRANS GENDER
PERSONS MAKEUP 1% OF THE
POPULATION AND FACULTY TEACH
PROXIMATELY 100 STUDENTS OVER
THE SEMESTER.  ALL OF THESE
PEOPLE ARE REAL PEOPLE HERE AT
OUR COLLEGE SOME SEARCH OF A
BETTER LIFE AND HAVE REAL BASIC
NEEDS.  I WISH WE COULD SHIELD
THEM ALL FROM THE ILL INFORMED
DISCRIMINATION THEY ENDURE BUT
I AM GRATEFUL LONE STAR HAS
WELCOMED THEM AND RESPECTED
THEIR DIGNITY.  THANK YOU.
>> ALLEAA FRANK
.
>> I HAVE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
BOARD POLICY EACH SPEAKER IS
ALOUD UP TO 5 MINUTES AND THERE
A LIGHT ON POD SEE YOU MEAN
WITH LEETS AND WHEN IT TURNS
RED YOUR TIME IS EXPERIMENT
>> GOOD MORNING I AM HERE TO
ADDRESS A COMMENT AND SOME
CONCERNS THAT WERE FILED BACK
IN 2024 OF AUGUST IN REFERENCE
TO THE ATCP PROGRAM HERE AT
LONE STAR.  AFTER 11 YEARS IN
EDUCATION IN HOUSTON, THREE
YEARS OF MY DAUGHTER BEING
ENROLLED IN CY-FAIR ISD LOCALLY
I WAS EXTREMELY EXCITED AND
HAPPY TO BE ACCEPTED INTO THE
ACTP PROGRAM.  MY FIRST EVER.
IN MAY OF 2022.  I STARTED
CLASSES IN AUGUST OF 2022.  IN
THAT MOMENT I KNEW MY DREAM OF
BEING A CERTIFIED TEACHER WILL
COME TO PASS.  UPON ENTRANCE I
NOTICED UNFAIR PLACEMENT EACH
WITH THE HIGH ENOUGH GPA I WAS
ADVERTISED AND GIVEN DIRECTIVES
TO TAKE EXAMS THAT WERE NOT
INTEREST REQUIREMENTS BASED ON
MY TRANSCRIPT GPA'S AND THE
PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.  I WAS
ALSO NOT EVEN ABLE TO
EFFECTIVELY COMMUNICATE WITH
MOST OF THE RANDOM ADVISORS
WITHOUT BEING DISPLACED OR END
TO THE DEPARTMENTS THAT HAD
NOTHING TO DO WITH CONTINUING
EDUCATION.  I CAN REMEMBER ONE
OF THE NINE ADVISORS WITHIN
THAT TIMEFRAME WOULD CC ME OR
REFER ME TO SOMEONE IN THE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT OR
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT WHEN
SPECIFICALLY ASKING QUESTIONS
IN REFERENCE TO EDUCATIONAL
RESOURCES, THAT ALONE WAS JUST
ONE OF THE MANY CONCERNS WITH
THE ADVISING THAT I EXPERIENCED
WHILE ENROLLED IN THIS PROGRAM.
ON AUGUST 6, 2024 FRUSTRATIONS
ABOUT THE COMMUNICATION
EXCHANGE AND THE TURNAROUND
RESPONSE WITH TESTING ADVISOR
AND INSTEAD OF ONE CONSISTENT
ADVISOR ABOUT THIS SPECIFIC
SITUATION IT WAS ESCALATED FROM
A CONCERNING EMAIL AND A PHONE
CALL FROM 8:30 THAT AM THAT
MORNING TO 4 OFFICERS AND AN
ADVOCATE DETAINING ME AT MY
APARTMENT AND ISSUING ME A
TRESPASSING DOCUMENT WHEN I WAS
NOT ON CAMPUS THAT DAY.  EVEN
WITH ALL OF THE COMPLICATIONS
AND YEARS IN EDUCATION MY
ULTIMATE GOAL IS TO REMAIN IN
EDUCATION AND FINISH MY
CERTIFICATION.  WITHOUT
ADDRESSING SPECIFIC NAMES OR
INDIVIDUALS, I AM ASKING LONE
STAR TO REACTIVATE MY ACCOUNT,
HAVE GRACE, TO MOVE FORWARD,
UNDERSTAND THAT I HELD MYSELF
ACCOUNTABLE THE PAST YEAR DUE
TO MENELAUSING MY CAREER, AFTER
PASSING 2 OF THE 3
RECERTIFICATION EXAM AND TAKEN
TA'S PRIOR SUGGESTION AND GIVE
ME A CONSISTENT ADVISOR, ALLOW
ME TO FINISH, COMPLETE
MY
PURSUIT IN BEING A CERTIFIED
TEACHER BECAUSE I HAVE NOT EVER
BEEN DIAGNOSED WITH ANYTHING
BESIDES BEING IN THE FIELD OF
EDUCATION.  IF YOU GUYS HAVE
ANY QUESTIONS FEEL FREE TO ASK
ME, HOWEVER I WANT TO ADDRESS
THAT COMMENT AND I THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR YOUR TIME.
>> WE ARE PROHIBITED BY LAW TO
RESPOND TO PUBLIC SPEAKERS
DURING THIS PORTION SO THANK
YOU FOR YOUR COMMENTS.  ANY
OTHER SPEAKERS.
>> NO OTHER PUBLIC SPEAKERS.
>> TRUSTEES WILL MOVE INTO IF
AGENDA.  FURTHER ITEM NUMBER 6
APPROVE OF THE MINUTES.  NOW
TIME FOR APPROVAL OF THE
MINUTES FROM THE AUGUST 7, 2025
BUDGET WORKSHOP MEETING AND
AUGUST 7, 2025 REGULAR MEETING.
ANY CORRECTIONS TO THE MINUTES?
SEE NONE.  MAY I HAVE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE MINUTES?  I HAVE
A MOTION BY TRUSTEE WILSON.  MY
I HAVE A SECOND.
>> SECOND.
>> I HAVE A SECOND BY TRUSTEE
MEZA.  THANK YOU.  SEE NO
DISCUSSION I WILL DO A ROLL
CALL VOTE.  LET THE RECORD SHOW
THAT TRUSTEE SCALD SALD
IVAR IS
HERE.
>> YES.
>> STO MA
?
>> ABSTAIN.
>> MURILLO?
>> YES.
>> THANK YOU. CAIN?
>> I VOTE YES AND IT PASSES
AND.  SPECIAL PROPERTIES AND
CONSIDERATIONS.
>>CHANCELLOR CASTILLO: I'M
GOING TO START WITH SPECIAL
REPORTS, EVENTS.  SO WE HAD THE
FALL 2025 SYSTEM WIDE
CONVOCATION ON AUGUST 19TH AND
A COUPLE OF TRUSTEE THERE IS
AND A FORMER TRUSTEE THERE AND
I WANT TO THANK TRUSTEE MEZA
AND WILSON IN ATTENDANCE AND
TRUSTEE WILSON DELIVERED THE
REMARKS AND THANK YOU.  IT WAS
A FREIGHT EVENT.  THE FEEDBACK
HAS BEEN OVERWHELMINGLY
POSITIVE OVER THE NEW DIRECTION
OF CONVOCATION SO I WANTED TO
LET THE BOARD KNOW WE DID HAVE
THAT EVENT AND BY ALL ACCOUNTS
VERY SUCCESSFUL.  THANK YOU FOR
THE TRUST AND CONSONANT IF I
DENSE TO PIVOT IN A LOCK
STANDING EVENT TO PIVOT AND LET
IT BE SOMETHING DIFFERENT THAN.
DR. (INDISCERNIBLE) HAS WELCOME
RECEPTION ON SEPTEMBER 8TH --
(AUDIO OUT).
#
>> I LOST AUDIO AND I DON'T
KNOW IF ANYBODY ELSE DID BUT I
CAN'T HEAR THE CHANCELLOR.
>> I CANNOT HEAR EITHER.
>> OKAY.
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME NOW TRUSTEE
STOMA?
>> YES, SIR.
>> TRUSTEE VOGT, YOU CAN HEAR
ME AS WELL.
>> THANK YOU. WELCOME
RECEPTION IS ON ACCEPT EIGHTH
IN THIS VERY ROOM FROM 3:00 TO
4:00PM AND I WOULD LIKE TO
INVITE EVERYONE HERE.  IT IS
OPEN TO ALL EMPLOYEES AND ALSO
COMMUNITY MEMBERS.  WE JUST
WANT TO WELCOME DR. MORALE
S
OFFICIAL OFFICIALLY.  I DO HAVE
A COUPLE RECOGNITIONS CHAIR.
ONE IS TO START WITH LIEU
AT
THE PRESENT ANT COLONEL DAVID
(INDISCERNIBLE) AND IF YOU COME
UP HERE -- HE ASKED ME TO CALL
HIM DAVID AND THAT WILL NEVER
HAPPEN.  SO YOU SERVED 24 YEARS
AS A UNITED STATES ARMY OFFICER
DEPLOYED 3 YEARS IN IRAQI
FREEDOM AND 3 BRONZE DOORS.
MANAGEMENT FROM WEST POINT AND
A MASTERS IN COUNSELING AND
LEADER DEVELOPMENT FROM LONG
ISLAND.  GRADUATE OF THE US
ARMY COMMAND AND GENERAL
STAFF
COLLEGE.  SCIENCE OF THE QUEER
IN 2011 OUT OF 273 PROGRAMS
NATIONWIDE.  DIRECTED EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT AT SAM HOUSTON FROM
2014 AND 2019.  PRIOR TO
JOINING US -- LAUNCHED TRAINING
AND LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT
DIVISION.  IMPLEMENTED --
ONLINE TRAINING AND NATIONALLY
RECOGNIZED PROGRAM SUCH AS HYPO
TEN SHALL LEADERSHIP ACADEMY
AND HE IS HERE CONSISTENT WITH
WHAT I TOLD THE BOARD LAST
MONTH.  I KNOW WHAT I DON'T
KNOW.  WE ARE HIRING PEOPLE
THAT ARE EXPERTS IN WHAT I
DON'T KNOW.  THAT ONE IS
VETERAN'S SERVICES AND WHO
BETTER THAN HIM TO HELP US
BUILD NOT JUST A PLACE WHERE
ALL IS WELCOME BUT BUILT FOR
VETERANS IN MIND.  I WOULD
YIELD THE FLOOR TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU. THANK YOU VERY
MUCH FOR THIS INCREDIBLE
OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE, TO SERVE
OUR STUDENTS TO SERVE OUR HE
HAD RANS AND SUPPORT THE
WONDERFUL FAMILY HERE AT LONE
STAR.  JUST VERY GREAT
GRATEFUL FOR
THE OPPORTUNITY.
>> THANK YOU AND WELCOME.
THANK YOU.  ANY COMMENTS?
WELCOME.  CHANCELLOR.
THIS IS
YOUR TIME AND I WOULD LIKE TO
DOVE TAIL ON WHAT HE SAID AND
COMMENT THE SYSTEM FOR THE
SOCIAL MEDIA SYSTEM THEY HAVE.
I SEE THE FACEBOOK POSTS AND
LINKEDIN AND THEY ARE DOING A
FABULOUS JOB WITH IT.
>> THANK YOU, SIR.
>>PROFESSOR: REMEMBER THAT
LAST MONTH WE TALKED A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT THE LIFE PATH
PROGRAM.  TRUSTEE WILSON, IN
PARTICULAR.  THERE WAS MENTION
OF DR. DAVIS -- WHERE ARE YOU.
IS IT COACH DAVIS OR DR. DAVIS?
COME ON DOWN.  WHEN YOU GET UP
HERE TELL US WHAT YOU PREFER.
LET ME TELL YOU WHO COACH DAVIS
IS, ALSO DR. DAVIS,SELFS AS
LIFE COACH AT LONE STAR TOMBALL
AND OVERSEES COMMUNITY
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS.
EXPERIENCE IN HIGHER HE HAD AND
K THROUGH 12 ADMINISTRATION.
CONTRIBUTES TO STUDENT SUCCESS
AND SPECIAL OLYMPICS TEXAS
SCHOOL CLUB.  PARTICIPATION IN
SEVERAL LEADERSHIP COHORT IT
IS.  CREW CHIEF AND BASKETBALL
KHRUSHCHEV REFEREE AND HONORED
TO BE SELECTED AND THAT'S THE
MAIN REASON WE BROUGHT YOU HERE
IS TO PERSONALLY CONTRACT LATE
YOU FOR TEEN TEXAS UNIFIED
BASKETBALL AT THE 2020 SPECIAL
OLYMPICS GAMES IN MINNESOTA.
YOU EARNED A IT CAN TORE OF
EDUCATION IN -- A MASTER OF
EDUCATION IN SECONDARY
EDUCATION FROM GRAND CANYON
UNIVERSITY.  DR. OR COACH,
WHICH ONE?
>> EITHER ONE.
>> WE WILL GO WITH COACH
DAVIS.  I REMEMBER THAT WHEN I
TOLD YOU THAT YOU WERE GOING TO
COME HERE YOU HAD A PROPOSAL
FOR ME, RIGHT?
>> YES, SIR.
>> THIS IS AN OPEN COLLEGE AND
I WILL ENCOURAGE TO YOU REPEAT
THAT PROPOSAL IN FRONT OF THE
ENTIRE BOARD BUT WE DO THINGS
OUT IN THE OPEN SO GO AHEAD.
>> WHEN I TALKED TO THE
CHANCELLOR AT THE VOCATION I
SUGGESTED WE START A SPECIAL
OLYMPICS COLLEGE CLUB AT EACH
ONE OF THE CAMPUSES.
>>CHANCELLOR CASTILLO: AND YOU
SHARED APPARENTLY THERE IS NOT
THAT MANY PROGRAMS IN THE AREA,
CORRECT?  SO THIS IS UNIQUE TO
HAVE THIS MANY PROGRAMS IN ONE
HOUSE
>> CORRECT. WE ARE ONLY THE
SECOND COLLEGE IN THE STATE OF
TEXAS THAT HAS A PROFESSIONAL
OWE LYMPH PIGS CLUB.
>>CHANCELLOR CASTILLO: WHAT DO
YOU NEED FROM US TO DO THE
THING?
>>CHANCELLOR CASTILLO: JUST
YOUR SUPPORT AND YOUR OKAY.
YOU GOT THE SUPPORT.  LET'S DO
IT.  ANYTHING FROM THE BOARD?
>> I ALWAYS JOKE WITH YOU
BECAUSE THAT COSTS MONEY TO
HOST SO HE ASKED WHAT DO YOU
NEED -- WHAT YOU NEED
?
>> WE NEED SOME MONEY. THANK
YOU.
>>CHANCELLOR CASTILLO: IT IS
NOT MY FIRST YEAR AS CHANCELLOR
ANYMORE.  I KNEW WHAT YOU
MEANT.  I AM STILL IN.  JUST
GIVE ME A FIGURE AND WE NEED TO
SUPPORT THESE STUDENTS.  THANK
YOU TRUSTEE WILSON.  I KNOW IT
MEANT MONEY.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU. COACH
,
APPRECIATE IT.
>>CHANCELLOR CASTILLO: THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU CHANCELLOR. WE
WILL NOW MOVE INTO CHANCELLOR'S
CABINET.  LONE STAR MONTGOMERY
PRESIDENT REID-HART COME TO THE
PODIUM FOR YOUR PRESENTATION,
MA'AM.
>>DR. REID-HART: I'M SHORT
HERE.  JUST DOWN A BIT.
GOOD
MORNING CHAIR SULLIVAN, BOARD
OF TRUSTEES, CHANCELLOR AND
COLLEAGUES.  THANK YOU FOR
ALLOWING ME TO SPEAK THIS
MORNING.  IT IS AN HONOR TO
REFLECT ON LONE STAR COLLEGE'S
53 YEARS OF SERVICE.
DOESN'T
WANT TO CLICK.
>> THERE WE GO.
>> DURING THE FALL OF 2025
CONVOCATION CHANCELLOR CASTILLO
RELEASED THE NEW LOGO.  THE
STAR OF TOMORROW DEPICTS THE
BRIDGE THAT LONE STAR PROVIDES
FOR THE STUDENTS TO REACH THEIR
GOALS.  WHEN I FIRST SAW THE
STAR THE STAR BUST TO ME
REPRESENTED THE THOUSANDS OF
STUDENTS WE HAVE SERVED OVER
THE PAST 53 YEARS.  THERE IS A
DELAY.  OUR STORY BEGAN IN
OCTOBER 7, 1972 WHEN VOTERS
APPROVED THE CREATION OF NORTH
HARRIS COUNTY COLLEGE.  ALDINE,
PRINCE AND DISTRICTS FORMED THE
COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT.
CLASSES WERE INITIALLY OFFERED
IN THE LOCAL HIGH SCHOOLS WITH
THE ADMINISTRATION OFFICE
LOCATED AT ALDINE HIGH SCHOOL.
IN 1976 THE COLLEGE OFFICIALLY
OPENED ITS FIRST CAMPUS SERVING
PROXIMATELY 600 STUDENTS.  IN
1957 WE AWARDED 6 CREDENTIALS.
THREE ASSOCIATE OF ART DEGREES
U ONE OF ASSOCIATE OF APPLIED
SCIENCE DEGREE AND TWO LEFT ONE
CERTIFICATES.  IT WAS A MODEST
BEGINNING BUT ESTABLISHED OUR
VISION OF ACCESS AND
AFFORDABILITY.  BY 1995 THAT
VISION HAD TAKEN ROOT.
KINGWOOD OPENED IN
1985 SERVING
APPROXIMATION MATILY -- TOMBALL
OPENED IN 19 -9D 89 WITH 1,750
STUDENTS.  MONTGOMERY OPENED IN
1995 AS THE FOURTH CAMPUS
ENROLLING 32.  THIS -- JUST A
QUICK SHOUT OUT.  THIS IS OUR
30 THAT'S ANNIVERSARY THIS
YEAR.  EACH EXPANSION MEANT NEW
COMMUNITIES GAINING ACCESS TO
HIGHER EDUCATION CLOSE TO
HOMEMENT BY THE END OF THE 1995
ACADEMIC YEAR LONE STAR COLLEGE
AWARDED 6,071 CREDENTIALS.  BY
2010 LONE STAR HAD BECOME A
LARGE MULTIPLE CAMPUS SYSTEM
ADDING CY-FAIR IN 203 SERVING
5300 STUDENTS.  UNIVERSITY PARK
OPENED AS A CENTER IN 2010
SERVING OVER 6,000 STUDENTS AND
EVENTUALLY EVOLVED INTO THE
SIXTH CAMPUS IN 2012.  BY THE
END OF THE ACADEMIC YEAR 2010
LONE STAR AWARDED NEARLY 46,000
CREDENTIALS.  WE HAVE THE
LIFELONG LEARNING IN 2000 AND A
GROWING SHARE OF TEXAS
ASSOCIATE DEGREE COMPLETERS
MAKING UP (INDISCERNIBLE) WE
WERE NO LONGER JUST GROWING.
WE WERE SHAPING EDUCATION
ACROSS THE STATE.  BY
2022LSC
ADDED ADDING HOUSTON NORTH AND
THEN FAIR BANKS GREEN POINT AND
VICTORY.  ADDING FALL BROOK IN
2020.  THE EIGHTH AND FINAL
CAMPUS ONLINE OPENED IN 2022
SERVING OVER 3600 STUDENTS FROM
2010 TO EARLY 2020'S
CERTIFICATES GROW RAPIDLY AND
MAKING LONE STAR A MAJOR
CONTRIBUTE ORS TO THE
PIPELINE.
WE STARTED OFFERING BACHELOR
DEGREES AND MOST IMPRESSIVELY
IN 2020, LSC AWARDED
157,398
CREDENTIALS.  TODAY, 53 YEARS
LATER.  WE ARE NOW SERVING
94,000 STUDENTS.  LET ME
CORRECT MYSELF BECAUSE I DID
THIS POWER LAST WEEK.  AS OF
THIS MORNING SEPTEMBER 4TH,
LONE STAR ENROLL STANDS AT
96,822 STUDENTS.  BUT
AS YOU
CHANCELLOR LIKES TO REMIND US,
IT IS BEYOND THE ENROLL
NUMBERS.  WE ARE FOCUSED ON
STUDENT OUTCOMES WHETHER IT IS
FACULTY WINNING NATIONAL AWARDS
IN MATH AND SCIENCE, HOSTING
REGIONAL BIO TECH CONFERENCES
BEING AWARDED MARSHALL AND
STATE GRANTS, PROVIDING WITH
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
OPPORTUNITIES TORE SIMPLY
HELPING THEM TO PREPARE TO KICK
THE BUTTS OF SENIORS IN RICE
AND UT IN A NASA COMPETITION
LONE STAR IS A BRIDGE FOR
OPPORTUNITY.  AS OF AUGUST 27,
2025 LONE STAR HAS AWARDED
184,091 CREDENTIALS.  EACH
REPRESENTING A CHANGED LIFE AND
A STRONGER COMMUNITY FOR WHICH
WE SERVE.  NATIONALLY COMMUNITY
COLLEGES GRADUATE ONE TO 2,000
STUDENTS PER YEAR.  AT THAT
RATE LONE STAR'S TOTAL
EQUIVALENT OF -- EQUALS 90 TO
180 YEARS OF GRADUATION.
UNDERSCORING OUR EXTRAORDINARY
SKILL.
AS OF 2024 A STUDY BY
THE COMMUNITY COLLEGE RESEARCH
CENTER AND ASPEN INSTITUTE
FOUND ONLY 45% OF COMMUNITY
COLLEGE STUDENTS EARN A
BACHELOR'S DEGREE UPON
TRANSFERRING.  LONE STAR
COLLEGE COMPETES AT A 48.5%
RATE MORE THAN 3% HIGHER THAN
THE STATE AVERAGE.  WE KNOW
STUDENTS SUCCEED WHEN BASIC
NEEDS ARE MET INSIDE AND
OUTSIDE OF THE CLASSROOM.  THIS
IS WHY LONE STAR WILL CONTINUE
TO ENSURE WE ARE HOLISTICALLY
MEETING THE NEEDS OF OUR
STUDENTS AND THE COMMUNITY WE
SERVE.  ACADEMY FOR LIFELONG
LEARNING HAS 2,000 MEMBERS
SHOWING EDUCATION IS A LIFELONG
PURSUIT.  WE COMMIT TO FACULTY
AND STAFF ARE APPROPRIATELY
TRAINED AND HAVE INITIATIVES
LIKE (INDISCERNIBLE) AND
EXPANDED TRAININGS TO
ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT.
ACROSS THE SYSTEM WE HAVE
EXPANDED FOOD PART TREE AND
VOUCHER PROGRAMS TO REDUCE
BARERS AND SUPPORT COUPLE
LESION.  NOTHING OF THIS
HAPPENS WITHOUT THE SUPPORT OF
OUR COMMUNICATION.  WE CONSIDER
TO SEEK AND AWARDED GRANTS AND
SCHOLARSHIPS AND ENDOWMENTS.
USUALLY FORMER STUDENTS OR
INDUSTRY PARTNERS.  WE ARE HERE
TO REMOVE BY ERRORS.  WE
HIRE
EXPERTS AND SEEK OPPORTUNITIES
TO PROVIDE APPROPRIATE
RESOURCES TO ALL OF OUR
STUDENTS.  BEYOND ACADEMICS
LONE STAR SERVES AS AN
INSTITUTION STRENGTHENING THE
COMMUNITY.  OUR STUDENTS ARE
REPAIRED.  OUR STORY IS STILL
UNFOLDING.  THE NEXT CHAPTER
WILL EXPAND ACCESS, DEEPEN
PARTNERSHIPS INCREASE RETENTION
AND COMPLETION AND DRIVE
INNOVATION, TOGETHER MOVING
FORWARD AS ONE LSC WE WILL
CONTINUE TO PROVIDE A BRIDGE
THAT ALLOWS STUDENTS TO NOT
ONLY TOUCH THE STARS BUT TO
SURPASS THE PURSUITS OF THEIR
GREATEST GOALS.  AS WE
CELEBRATE 53 YEARS WE HONOR OUR
PATH AND LOOK BOLDLY ON THE
FUTURE.  ON BE CALF THE
FACULTY, STUDENTS AND STAFF AND
ADMINISTRATION WE WANT TO THANK
THE BOARD FOR OUR SUPPORT AND
LEADERSHIP.  WE WILL MAKE THE
NEXT 53 YEARS JUST AS IMPACTFUL
AS THE FIRST.  THANK YOU.
>> DR. REID-HART THANK YOU FOR
REMINDING US HOW FAR WE HAVE
COME BECAUSE IT IS
EXTRAORDINARY AND I KNOW THE
FUTURE IS LIMITLESS FOR ALL OF
US.  CHANCELLOR ANY FOLLOW UP
COMMENT.
>>CHANCELLOR CASTILLO: GOOD
JOB.  THANK YOU.
>> TRUSTEES. ANY QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS?  ONE AGAIN,
CONGRATULATIONSES AND THANK
YOU.
>> WE WILL NOW MOVE TO NEXT
AGENDA ITEM WHICH IS FACULTY
REPRESENTATIVE AND I WILL ASK
THE CHANCELLOR TO TELL US ABOUT
THE CHANGE ON THIS DESCRIPTION
IN THE AGENDA.
>>CHANCELLOR CASTILLO: YES,
SIR.  THIS IS USED -- USED SAY
FACULTY SENATE PRESIDENTS AND
IN THE LAST LEGISLATIVE SESSION
THERE WAS A CHANGE UNDER SD
THAT MAYBE REWROTE OR WROTE FOR
THE FERTILE OF WHAT IS REQUIRED
BY LAW TO HAVE A FACULTY SENATE
AND IN THE INTERIM PART OF WHAT
IT SAYS ACTIVITIES HAS BEEN TO
BE SUSPENDED WHILE YOU BUILD A
PROGRAM THAT COMPLIES WITH THE
LAW.  LIKE MOST THINGS WE ARE
GOING TO COMPLY WITH THE LAW
AND -- WHAT I WANTED TO MAKE
CLEAR AND THANK YOU IS I AM
PUBLICLY COMMITTED TO WORKING
WITH OUR FACULTY,
NOTWITHSTANDING SB 37.  WE
STILL BELIEVE IN SHARED
GOVERNANCE AND ACADEMIC AND FRO
COME AND FACULTY DESERVE A
VOICE AT THE TABLE AND TO BE
EQUAL PARTNERS AT FINDING A
SOLUTION.  OVER THE COURSE OF
THE NEXT FEW MONTHS FORMER
FACULTY PRESIDENTS AND I ARE
GOING TO MEET AND DISCUSS
DRAFTS AND WORK COLLABORATIVELY
IN A SHARED GOVERNANCE MODEL
THAT WE CAN ALL AGREE ON.  EACH
IF WE ARE NOT ALL HAPPY ON IT
WE WILL REACH A CONSENSUS.  I
WANT TO THANK THE FACULTY AND
MANY INNERINTERRUPTED THEIR
SUMMERS TO HAVE MEETINGS ABOUT
SB37 OVER THE SUMMER SO I AM
GRATEFUL FOR THAT AS WELL
BECAUSE I KNOW A LOT OF YOU
COULD HAVE WAITED UNTIL AUGUST
OR ACCEPT TO WORK ON THAT AND
YOU HAVE MY PUBLIC COMMITMENT
TO WORK WITH THE FACULTY
BECAUSE YOU ARE THE REASON THAT
WE ARE HERE AND YOU DO THE
THING CLOSEST TO THE STUDENTS
AND I AM GRATEFUL FOR THAT AND
I WILL SHOW MY GRATITUDE BY
ALWAYS -- NOTWITHSTANDING SB
37.
>> INTRODUCE YOURSELF.
>>PROFESSOR DAVIS: I AM THE
FACULTY REPRESENT ONLINE AND I
HAVE LED TWO STUDY ABROAD TRIPS
WITH LSC.  I WANT TO PRESENT AN
OVERVIEW OF STUDY ABROAD AND
THE IMPACT AND ATTRACTION IT
HAS FOR THE STUDENTS AND
HIGHLIGHT SOME OF THE TRIPS AND
FACULTY INVOLVEMENT.  J A QUICK
NOTE, EVERY PICTURE YOU SEE
HERE IN THESE SLIDES ARE LEGAL
PHOTOS FROM STUDY ABROAD TRIPS
FROM FACULTY AND STUDENTS.
THESE ARE NOT STOCK PHOTOS.
THIS IS A MAP HIGHLIGHTING THE
SCOPE AND RANGE WE HAVE OVER
THE YEARS AT LSC, TAKING
STUDENTS.  THIS IS REPRESENTING
OVER 5 CONTINENTS WE HAVE TAKEN
OUR STUDENTS TO EXPERIENCE THE
WORLD.  WE ARE POSSIBLY WORKING
ON A SIXTH IN AUSTRALIA BUT YOU
CAN SEE FROM EUROPE, SOUTH
AMERICA AND MOST RECENTLY,
ISSUE AND A NORTH AFRICA.  WE
ARE SENDING OUR STUDENTS OUT
INTO THE WORLD AND THEY ARE
BRINGING THE WORLD BACK HOME TO
LSC.
I THINK THIS MATTERS STUDY
ABROAD FOR OUR STUDENTS.  FOR
MANY IT IS THEIR FIRST
EXPERIENCE OUTSIDE OF THE
COUNTRY AND FOR MANY IT MIGHT
THEIR ONLY EXPERIENCE OUTSIDE
OF THE COUNTRY.  SOME IT IS
THEIR FIRST EXPERIENCE OUTSIDE
OF THE STATE.  FIRST TRIP ON AN
AIRPLANE, ON A TRAIN.  SO WE
ARE REALLY OPENING UP A GLOBAL
AND INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE
FOR SO MANY OF OUR STUDENTS,
ESPECIALLY THOSE THAT DON'T
HAVE A OPPORTUNITY AND MEANS TO
EXPERIENCE SOMETHING LIKE THAT
SO MANY OTHER STUDENTS IN THIS
COUNTRY.  THE SUPPORT WE GET
FROM LONE STAR, THE BOARD AND
THE CHANCELLOR AND HONORS OUR
-- IS FACILITATING THAT.  I
HAVE SOME STATISTICS HERE.  THE
ATTRACTIVENESS OF STUDY ABROAD
FOR STUDENTS IS A MAJOR
RECRUITING GOAL AND A MAJOR
DRAW FOR SAYING IN COLLEGE AND
I THINK IT SIGNALS NOT ONLY THE
OUR STUDENTS BUT TO THE STATE
AND NATION THAT STUDY ABROAD
BELONGS AT COMMUNITY COLLEGES
AND THAT IT IS POSSIBLE.  HERE
WE CAN SEE THE NUMBER OF HEY
WARDS YOUR STUDENTS HAVE WON.
WE HAVE HAD OVER 13GILMAN
SCHOLARSHIPS HELPING TO FUND TO
BE ABLE TO GO ON THE TRIPS.
THEY ARE HELPED BOY HONORS
EDUCATION TO APPLY FOR THIS AND
THE FACULTY TRIP LEADERS.  WE
HAVE 5 STUDENTS SELECTED FOR
THE CASE PROGRAM IN TUNISIA.
WE HAVE MAJOR SCHOLARSHIPS FROM
EDUCATION ABROAD AND LONE STAR
RECOGNIZED AS A TOP 10
ACCEPTEDDER FROM THE INSTITUTE
OF INTERNATIONAL HE WOULD
CAGE.
FINANCIAL SUPPORT, OUR STUDENTS
RECEIVE SUPPORT TO LSC
EMPLOYEES AND STAFF THROUGH THE
FOUNDATION STUDY ABROAD
SCHOLARSHIP ENDOMENT,
APPLICATION SUPPORT AND INFO
SESSIONS.  WE ARE PARTNERSHIPS
WITH OTHER INSTITUTIONS AROUND
THE WORLD FOR COST SHARING AND
WE HAVE TRAVEL CO-OPS AND ANY
NUMBER OF AVENUES.  IF YOU TAKE
A LOOK HERE, WE HAVE HIGHER
LAND, JAPAN, MOROCCO, SOUTH
KOREA AND VIRTUAL EXCHANGE.  SO
NOT JUST GET HOG A PLAIN AND
TAKING A COURSE.  WE HAVE
MULTIPLE VERSIONS OF WHAT WE
CONSIDER STUDY ABROAD.  WE HAVE
SPECIALIZED PROGRAMS.  WE HAVE
NEW YORK CITY LEADERSHIP
INSTITUTE.  HOME GROWN
EXCHANGES.  A LOT OF THIS IS
SUPPORTED ON THE FACULTY SIDE
BY OUR FACULTY INTERNATIONAL
EXPLORATION AWARD FIE FOR SHORT
WHERE WE GIVE FACULTY
OPPORTUNITY A SMALL STIPEND TO
TRAVEL AND DEVELOP
INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION
INTIVES.  IF YOU LOOK AT THE
PICTURES ON THE BOTTOM, HE IS
ONE OF MY WORKFORCE COLLEAGUES
WHO WAS ABLE TO GET AN FIE
AWARD TO AUSTRALIA AND POSSIBLY
DEVELOP A PROGRAM FOR STUDY
ABROAD THROUGH WORKFORCE TO
TAKE STUDENTS TO AUSTRALIA.
GLOBAL WORKFORCE WINS.
31 MILLION JOB POSTINGS REQUIRE
STUDY ABROAD SKILLS.
EIGHTY-NINE% OF STUDENTS
DEVELOP 21ST CENTURY SKILLS
THROUGH INTERNATIONAL
EXPERIENCE.  THESE ARE SKILLS
THAT OUR STUDENTS NEED AND
VALUE AND OUR STUDENT EMPLOYERS
VALUE.  SO THIS IS A KIND OF
LIST OF SOME OF THE PROGRAMS WE
HAVE DONE RECENTLY TAKE A LOOK
AT THE TYPE OF COURSES WE ARE
OFFERING.  IT IS NOT JUST
HISTORY AND HUMANITIES WHICH I
TEACH AND WE DO HAVE BUT YOU
NOTICE WE HAVE PHYSICAL
EDUCATION COURSES, CHEMISTRY,
ACCOUNTING, GOVERNMENT.  AND
THESE FACULTY WHO TAKE THESE
STUDENTS COME FROM ACROSS THE
CAMPUSES.  I WORK WITH A
COLLEAGUE AT KINGWOOD,
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM WE HAVE
DONE TO SPAIN AND PORTUGAL.
LSC ONLINE.  SO IT IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR FACULTY COME
TOGETHER FROM ACROSS THE
CAMPUSES AND WORK
COLLABORATIVELY AND THE
STUDENTS FROM ALL OVER THE
DISTRICT AND GETTING TO KNOW
ONE ANOTHER AND PROGRAMS AND
EXPERIENCE WORKING WITH
DIFFERENT PROFESSORS.
SO ONE OF THE GREAT THINGS ON
THE FACULTY SIDE GETTING TO
WORK WITH OTHER FACULTY AND
STUDENTS I MIGHT NOT OTHERWISE
GET TO WORK WITH.  WE HAVE SOME
QUOTES FROM AN ARTICLE RECENTLY
PUBLISHED AND THIS IS
STEVE
DAVIS THAT I HAVE KNOWN FOR A
LONG TIME.  WE ARE HAVING A
CLASS IN THE (INDISCERNIBLE).
TO BE WALKING THROUGH THE
STREETS OF A BEAUTIFUL CITY IN
MORROCCO AND HAVE A GUEST
SPEAKER OR A TOUR AND THAT IS
EXPERIENTIAL EDUCATION.
WE HAVE HAD TRIPS TO THE
PHILIPPINES.  I'M GOING TO RUN
THROUGH THESE.  MOSTLY JUST THE
PICTURES AND HIGHLIGHTS THAT WE
CAN SEE.  OF COURSE YOU CAN SEE
IT IS NOT JUST ABOUT THE TEXT
LEARN AND CONCEPT AND IDEAS,
SUBPOENAS FOOD, CULTURE AND
MEETING OTHER PEOPLE.  JAPAN.
THIS IS A POPULAR ONE RECENTLY.
WE HAVE STUDENTS ON A WAIT LIST
TO GET INTO THESE PROGRAMS.  I
WISH WE COULD TAKE MORE AND
MORE AND HAVE MORE.  MOROCCO
AND OF COURSE WE ARE TAKING
LONE STAR OUT IN THE WORLD.  WE
LIKE TO DO THAT WITH OUR BANNER
ON THE TRIPS.  SHARING THIS
FROM A STUDENTS.  BARBEE, THIS
WAS A STOP IN MADRID.  THIS
IS
PICASSOS (INDISCERNIBLE) IN
MADRID.  FAMOUS STUDY.  SEEING
IT IN PERSON IN THE MUSEUM WAS
A DREAM COME THROUGH.  WHAT
ENERGIZED THE EXPERIENCE WAS
LEARNING THE EXPERIENCE AND
LEARNING ABOUT PICASSO CREATING
GUEMICA.  INSTEAD OF SITTING IN
MY CLASSROOM AND LOOKING AT A
POWERPOINT SLIDE, TO ACTUALLY
GO AND SEE IT AND TO MAKE THAT
HAPPEN THROUGH ESPECIALLY THE
FUNDING AND SUPPORT OF LONE
STAR COLLEGE.  ANOTHER
STUDENT
TALKING ABOUT SEEING THE TOMB
OF CHRIS CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS
AND WHAT THAT MEANT TO HIM.  WE
HAD A GREAT TRIP TO IRE LINED
ON MYTHOLOGY AND CULTURE.  THEY
TRAVELED TO RURAL AREAS AND
CITY AREAS AND MUSEUMS AND
AGAIN, GUEST SPEAKERS.  THIS IS
ONE WE ARE PROUD OF SOUTH KOREA
LED FROM JOHN THEIS.  THERE
FROM JUNE 18 TO AUGUST 1 NUTT.
OUR STUDENTS WERE TEACHING
ENGLISH TO KOREAN STUDENTS.
THEY EARNED $1,000 DOING THAT.
NEXT FOUR WEEKS THEY SAT ON
COURSES IN ANY NUMBER OF
COURSES WITH INTERNATIONAL
STUDENTS AND SPENT OVER A MONTH
IN KOREA AND HAD A PROFOUND AND
TRANSFORMATIVE EXPERIENCE.
PROFESSOR XU LEADING A STUDY
APPROVE PROGRAM TRANSFORMED NOT
ONLY MY STUDENT'S WORLD VIEW
BUT ANY OWN APPROACH TO
TEACHING.  I THINK THAT'S
IMPORTANT.  REMINDING ME THAT
EDUCATION LIVES WHERE CURIOSITY
MEETS CULTURE AND THAT THE MOST
POWERFUL LESSONS OFTEN HAPPEN
FAR BEYOND THE CLASSROOM.  I
HAVE HAD STUDENTS CHANGE THEIR
MAJOR HAVING BEEN 40 A TRIP.
IT CAN HAVE A PROFOUND,
PROFOUND IMPACT.  IN CLOSING I
THINK TO THANK EVERYONE AT
HONORS AND INTERNATIONAL
EDUCATION.  THEY SUPPORT THEY
GIVE US IS BEYOND WORDS BUT I
WANT TO THANK THE CHANCELLOR
FOR HIS SUPPORT AND THE BOARD
FOR YOUR SUPPORT FOR STUDY
ABROAD PROGRAMS AND
PARTICULARLY AWARDS THAT WE ARE
ABLE TO GIVE OUR STUDENTS.  YOU
KNOW, WITHOUT WHICH THERE IS
REALLY NO EQUITABLE WAY FOR
MANY OF THESE STUDENTS BE ABLE
TO SEE THE WORLD AND EXPERIENCE
WHAT THEY DO IN STUDY ABROAD.
AND WITH THAT, I'M HAPPY TO
TAKE ANY QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU PROFESS SORE
DAVIS I HAVE A QUESTION BUT I
LIKE TO ASK MY COLLEAGUES
FIRST.  ANY QUESTIONS?  IF I
MAY, DR. CAIN.
>> THAT'S A VERY IMPRESSIVE
PROGRAM.  THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
SHARING THAT.  YOU MAY HAVE
TOUCHED ON THIS AND I MAY HAVE
MISSED IT BUT HOW ARE THE
STUDENTS CHOSEN OR DO THEY OPT
IN AND ABOUT HOW MANY STUDENTS
PER ACADEMIC YEAR ARE IN THIS
PROGRAM, TAKING ADVANTAGE OF
THE OPPORTUNITY TO TRAVEL.
>> TIP LIKE WE RUN FOUR
PROGRAMS OF THIS STRAIGHT STUDY
ABROAD TRIPS.  IT CAN BE 3 OR
4.  THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS
MIGHT BE 14 TO 22 WITH 2 OR 3
FACULTY MEMBERS T SELECTION
PROCESS IS RIGOROUS IN TERMS OF
-- EACH TRIP HAS ITS OWN
CRITERIA BUT IT IS AN OPEN
PROCESS.  EVERY STUDENT IS
ELIGIBLE AND TYPICALLY A
MINIMUM GRADE POINT AVERAGE AND
A LETTER OF INTENT OR ESSAY
WRITING WHY THEY WANT TO GO.
WE -- I CAN SPEAK FOR MYSELF,
WE TRY TO SELECT FROM A BROAD
RANGE OF STUDENTS.  SOME MIGHT
HAVE TRAVEL EXPERIENCE THAT IS
BENEFICIAL BUT ESSENTIALLY
THOSE THAT DON'T HAVE
EXPERIENCE AND THIS IS THEIR
FIRST TIME.  WE SELECT FROM
DIFFERENT MAJORS AND CAMPUSES
AND WE HAVE ANY NUMBER OF
CRITERIA THAT WE USE TO TRY TO
SELECT THE BEST GROUP THAT WE
CAN, THAT'S AN EVEN
DISTRIBUTION IN ANY NUMBER OF
CATEGORIES AND WE DO OUR BEST
BUT WE HAVE WAIT LISTS.
UNFORTUNATELY.  IT IS ALSO --
IT IS UNFORTUNATE TO TELL
STUDENTS THEY CAN'T GO THAT
MIGHT OTHERWISE BE ELIGIBLE AND
NEEDING AND WANTING TO.  THE
MORE HE CAN EXPAND THIS PROGRAM
TO THE EXTENT POSSIBLE WE CAN
SERVE EACH MORE STUDENTS.
>> THANK YOU. TRUSTEE S
SALDIVAR.
>> THANK YOU. I TRULY SUPPORT
THESE TYPES OF PROGRAMS AND I
AM GLAD LONE STAR HAS THEM
BECAUSE I BENEFITED FROM THEM
WHEN I WAS AT THE UNIVERSITY.
IT WAS MY FIRST EXPERIENCE
TRAVELING OUTSIDE OF THE STATE
AND IT DOES CHANGE YOU.  IT
GIVES YOU A NEW PERSPECTIVE ON
PEOPLES' CULTURES, THE
GOVERNMENT, SOCIAL, EVERYTHING.
SO, YOU KNOW, IT KIND OF LET'S
YOU TO KIND OF THINK WE'RE NOT
THE ONLY ONES, RIGHT?  AND SO
BECAUSE OF THAT I HAVEN'T
STOPPED TRAVELING SO THAT IS
VERY, VERY TRUE.  OBVIOUSLY OUR
UNIVERSITY WAS A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT BUT THEY ARE VERY
EXPENSIVE, THOSE PROGRAMS BUT
WE HAD SCHOLARSHIPS FOR THAT.
BUT YOU WOULD THINK AS A
STUDENT, BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT I
THOUGHT, OH I AM GOING TO BE
SITE SEEING EVERYWHERE AND THIS
IS AND THAT BUT NO.  IT'S
REALLY NOT.  YES, YOU CAN SITE
SEE BUT IT GOES WITH THE
PROGRAM BUT IT'S A VERY HARD
AND SORT OF DIFFICULT, RIGHT,
-- IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO TALK
MORE ABOUT THAT BUT YOU GET SO
ADDICTED TO THAT, THAT ONCE YOU
DO ONE PROGRAM YOU JUST WANT TO
CONTINUE TO DO THAT.  SO THANK
YOU FOR OFFERING THAT.
CHANCELLOR I TRULY DO BELIEVE
IF WE COULD EXPAND THE PROGRAM
BECAUSE IT IS LIFE CHANGING TO
A STUDENT.  IT REALLY IS.
>> THANK YOU.
>> YOU HAD A QUESTION DIDN'T
YOU AND YOU ASKED IF WE COULD
DO MORE --
>>PROFESSOR DAVIS: BASED ON
WHAT YOU WERE SAYING I DO THING
IT IS NOT JUST THE MUSEUMS AND
THE TRIPS AND THE SITE SEEING.
IT IS ALSO THE CAMARADERIE THE
STUDENTS DEVELOP.  IT IS THE
SMALL THINGS, THE SPACES IN
BETWEEN AND TRYING SOMETHING
NEW, AN ENCOUNTER THEY MIGHT
HAVE, RIDING A TRAIN, PUBLIC
TRAPS PORTAGES, HAVING A
CONVERSATION WITH SOMEBODY ELSE
THAT MIGHT OPEN THEIR MIND AND
THE MIND OF OTHERS.  IT IS
IMPORTANT AS YOU ILLUSTRATE, IT
IS NOT JUST SENDING THEM OUT
BUT COMING BACK FOR OUR
CAMPUSES AND COLLEGE, FOR THEIR
COLLEAGUES, CHURCHES, AND
COMMUNITIES AND BRINGING THAT
EXPERIENCE AND MAKING THAT
COMMUNITY IN OUR COMMUNITY
COLLEGE THAT MUCH BETTER.
>> SO LET ME START WITH THIS,
CAN YOU TALK A LITTLE BIT MORE
ABOUT THE FACULTY EXPERIENCE
BECAUSE IF YOU GO BACK A FEW
PICTURES I GET STRESSED OUT
ABOUT THE FACULTY MEMBER BEING
-- THAT STRESSES ME OUT JUST
LOOKING AT THEM
>>PROFESSOR DAVIS: IT STRESSES
ME OUT.  (LAUGHING).
>>CHANCELLOR CASTILLO: I CAN'T
IMAGINE BEING RESPONSIBLE FOR
THAT MANY HUMANS IN A DIFFERENT
COUNTRY BECAUSE I GET LOST BY
MYSELF.  CAN YOU TALK ABOUT
THAT WHAT IS THE STRESS LEVEL
IN BEING ACCOUNTABLE FOR THAT
MANY OTHER HUMANS.
>>PROFESSOR DAVIS: IT IS
STRESSFUL BUT INTERNATIONAL
EDUCATION WE HAVE TRAININGS
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.  WE HAVE
EXPECTATIONS AND TRAININGS WITH
STUDENTS.  WE HAVE CONTRACTS
ABOUT BEHAVIOR OF COURSE.
THESE ARE ADULTS.  NOBODY GOES
WHO IS NOT OVER 18 BUT IT IS
IMPRESSED UPON THEM THAT THEY
HAVE FUNDING FROM LONE STAR.
THEY ARE REPRESENTATIVES OF
THIS COLLEGE.  WE SELECT BASED
ON THE KINDS OF STUDENTS AND
PEOPLE WE THINK CAN HANDLE
THIS.  WE MEET WITH THE
STUDENTS WELL IN ADVANCE AND
YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE THINGS WE
TALK TO THEM ABOUT IS DON'T
RUIN THIS FOR THE NEXT GROUP
AND I THINK THEY UNDERSTAND AND
APPRECIATE THAT.  WE DO HAVE
PARAMETERS AND LIMITS REALIZING
THAT THESE ARE ADULTS BUT THEY
ARE TAKING A COURSE, THEY ARE
PAYING TUITION FOR IT AND MANY
OF THEM ARE GETTING FUNDING AND
I THINK FOR THE MOST PART, IT
GETS THROUGH AND DOESN'T MEAN
THERE AREN'T MISSTEPS ALONG THE
WAY BUT -- MOST OF THE STUDENTS
--
>> (INDISCERNIBLE).
>>PROFESSOR DAVIS: YES, BUT
THERE IS THAT BONDING
EXPERIENCE THAT WE ARE IN IT
FOR EACH OTHER AND WE PICK EACH
OTHER UP AND THOSE THAT HAVE
STRONGER LANGUAGE SKILLS HELP
FACULTY AND HELP THE OTHER
STUDENT, MAYBE HAVE MORE
EXPERIENCE TRAVELING AND CAN
HELP THOSE.  THERE IS CULTURE
SHOCK AND THE NEW, ESPECIALLY
IN SOME OF THESE COUNTRIES THAT
ARE FAR ACROSS THE WORLD.  IT
IS AN EXPERIENCE AND AN
EXPERIENCE FROM FACULTY.  YES,
IT IS STRESSFUL BUT I ALSO
APPRECIATE THE FACT THAT I AM A
REPRESENTATIVE AND I CAN SPEAK
FOR THE REST OF FACULTY OF LONE
STAR AND I AM A STEWARD OF LONE
STAR AND THESE STUDENTS AND YOU
KNOW, I THINK AFTER THE FIRST
FEW DAYS MOST OF THESE GROUPS
AND TRIPS REALIZE WE ARE IN
THIS TOGETHER EVEN THOUGH THERE
IS AN INDIVIDUAL EXPERIENCE,
AND AWARD.  WE ARE DOING IT
COLLECTIVELY.  WE'RE LEARNING.
WE'RE GOING AND WE'RE BRINGING
THIS BACK HOME.
>>CHANCELLOR CASTILLO: AND THE
LAST THING I WANT TO SAY, THANK
YOU PROFESSOR IS I AM A SUPPORT
OF WORLD TRAVEL.  I AS A HUMAN
DON'T LIKE TO TRAVEL BECAUSE
THE REASONS IS I GET NERVOUS
BUT I AM A SUPPORTER OF IT
BECAUSE I THINK IN ORDER TO
OFFER WORLD CLASS EDUCATION WE
HAVE TO TRAVEL THE WORLD.
THERE ARE CERTAIN THINGS THAT
WE CAN READ ABOUT AND WATCH
VIDEOS BUT THERE ARE CERTAIN
THINGS THAT HAVE TO BE
EXPERIENCED.  ART IS THE A GOOD
EXAMPLE.  YOU CAN SEE A PICTURE
OF ART BUT WHEN YOU STANDING
BEFORE IT THAT IN FRONT OF THE
CANVAS THAT THE ARTIST STROKE
THERE IS A FEELING AND
EDUCATION ABOUT IT.  YOU CAN
READ ABOUT ARCHITECTURE AND
READ ABOUT IT BUT THERE IS
SOMETHING TO SITTING IN FRONT
406 A CATHEDRAL OR MONUMENT
MADE BY HUMANS AND THERE IS AN
EDUCATIONAL ASPECT THAT CAN'T
BE REPLICATED BY INTERNATIONAL
TRAVEL.  I DO THINK WE OFFER A
WORLD CLASS EXPERIENCE HERE AT
LONE LOPE AND PART OF THIS IS
OFFERING A WORLD CLASS
EXPERIENCE.
>> PROFESSOR DAVIS BEFORE YOU
LEAVE I THINK I HEARD YOU SAY
YOU WISH YOU COULD MAKE MORE
STUDENTS.  SO I WROTE DOWN WHAT
INTEREST LIMITATIONS AND
BARRIERS.
>>PROFESSOR DAVIS: ON A
PARTICULAR TRIP IT WOULD BE
HARD TO TAKE SUCH A LARGE GROUP
WITH FLIGHTS AND LOGISTICS BUT
OPENING UP TO MORE PROGRAMS,
BEING ABLE TO GO.  WE DO 3 OR 4
A YEAR AND THAT'S THE MAIN
STUDY ABROAD AS I HIGHLIGHTED
IN SOME OF THE SLIDES WE HAVE
SHORTER TERM PROGRAMS FOR SURE.
SUPPORT.  AS WAS MENTIONED WITH
THE ONE OF THE PREVIOUS
EXPERIENCES.  RECRUITING X
(MULTIPLE VOICES) REVIEWING
STUDENTS AND MAKING STUDENTS --
YEAH.
>> OKAY. SECOND QUESTION,
IS
THERE -- ON THESE TRIPS AND
WITH STUDY ABROAD, IS THERE A
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN COMMUNITY
COLLEGE PARTICIPATION AND OTHER
OTHERS?
>>PROFESSOR DAVIS: I DON'T
THINK SO.  I'M NOT QUITE SURE
IN TERMS OF THE KINDS OF TRIPS
WE DO AT LONE STAR.  I DON'T
BELIEVE ARE DIFFERENT OTHER
THAN BEING BETTER.  YOU KNOW,
OURS ARE, FOR THE MOST PART,
CURATES IN-HOUSE.  THE ONE THAT
STEVE DAVIS AND I LED WE HELPED
BOOK THE FLIGHTS AND DO THE
LOGISTICS.  WE DO HAVE SOME
OTHERS WITH PARTNERSHIPS THAT
ARE READY MADE THAT WE CAN
SEGUE INTO AND THOSE ARE VAL
VALLABLE TOO AND THAT HELPS US
TO ITS SCALE.  MOST OF THE
OTHER STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS AT
BIG UNIVERSITIES, THEY GET
STUDENT FROM ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY.  UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS
STUDY ABROAD YOU HAVE STUDENTS
FROM NEW YORK AND OTHER
INSTITUTIONS BECAUSE YES, THERE
IS SOMETHING VALUABLE BUT IT IS
POSSIBLY A MONEY MAKER.  OURS
ISN'T TO MAKE MONEY BUT FOCUS
ON STUDENTS AND GIVE THEM THE
BEST EXPERIENCE POSSIBLE AND WE
WORK HARD TO KEEP THOSE COSTS
DOWN BUT ALSO MAKE IT SAFE,
REWARDING, ENJOYABLE AND IT'S
KIND OF A HOME GROWN HERE AT
THE COMMUNITY COLLEGE.  BUT IN
TERMS OF THE COURSES THEY ARE
TAKING AND EXPERIENCES THEY
HAVE, I CHALLENGE ANY OTHER
STUDY ABROAD PROGRAM FROM
HARVARD TO THE UNIVERSITY OF
TOGETHER AS TO GIVE THE
EXPERIENCE.
>> THAT'S A GOOD WAY TO END
YOUR PRESENTATION AND THANK
YOU.  APPRECIATE.  LOOK FORWARD
TO HAVING YOU BACK.  BOARD
MEMBERS WILL NOW PROCEED INTO
THE AGENDA AND AGENDA CALLS FOR
TWO ITEMS, ONE SPECIAL REPORTS
AND ANNOUNCEMENTS AND THEN TWO
COMMITTEE REPORTS.  SO LET'S GO
WITH SPECIAL REPORTS OR
ANNOUNCEMENTS AND I WILL LOOK
DOWN TO MY LEFT.  TRUSTEE
MURILLO?  TRUSTEE MEZA.  THANK
YOU.  THIS IS MORE OF A COMMENT
VERSUS A REPORT.  I WAS ABLE TO
ATTEND THE HOUSTON MERACH
IA
FESTIVAL AND I WAS ABLE TO TAKE
MY PARENTS AND IT WAS REALLY
REWARDING TO SEE THEM
EXPERIENCE THAT.  I WAS
COMMENTING TO (INDISCERNIBLE)
EARLIER THIS MORNING ABOUT THE
EXPERIENCE AND TRUSTEE MURLILLO
AND TRUSTEE SAL BIZARRE I HAVE
BEEN BEFORE AND THIS WAS THE
FIRST TIME AND I FREQUENT THE
HOUSTON FILM FESTIVAL AND I
HIGHLY RECOMMEND AND IT IS IN
MARCH AND I AM PRETTY SURE I
WILL BE A REGULAR WITH LONE
STAR BUT I AM DEFINITELY GOING
TO INVITE MORE PEOPLE TO THIS.
WE HAD THE BEST SEATS THAT YOU
COULD ASK FOR AND WE ARE PROUD
TO REPRESENT LONE STAR THERE
AND JUST THE REALLY GREAT
PROGRAM.  A LOT OF THE
PERFORMERS WITH THE MAYOR ASHY
GROUP AND I BELIEVE THEY WERE
CALLED (INDISCERNIBLE) -- THEY
WERE TEACH EGGS AND INSTRUCTORS
AND MANY DOWN FROM THE VALLEY
AND THEIR FRIENDS 06 A FRIEND
AND SO IT WAS A REALLY GOOD
EXPERIENCE AND THEY DID AN
AMAZING SHOW.  VERY RICH
CULTURALLY AND ME PERSON
NATIONALLY I AM NOT OF MEXICAN
HERITAGE BUT I GOT TO LEARN A
LOT ABOUT THE HERITAGE AND
CULTURE AND IT WAS BEAUTIFUL TO
SEE THAT AND EXPERIENCE THAT
AND ALSO WITH MY PARENTS.
MY MOTHER JUST GOTTEN ROLLED
HER INTO THE ACADEMY FOR
LIFELONG LEARNING PROGRAM.  SHE
ATTENDED A TIACHI CLASS AND
ENJOYED AND GOT LOST ON CAMPUS
BUT SOMEONE WHO WAS A FRIENDLY
FACE HELPED HER OUT AND SHE
LEARNED A LITTLE AND I THINK
SHE IS ATTENDING A FIELD TRIP
AND DOING SOME OTHER CLASS SOS
I AM REALLY GRATEFUL FOR THE
COLLEGE TO OFFER THAT PROGRAM
AND THE OTHER DAY I WAS RUNNING
AT THE TRACK OF MY LOCAL MIDDLE
SCHOOL AND I RAN INTO SOMEONE
AND I TOLD THEM ABOUT THIS
PROGRAM AND SO HOPEFUL WE CAN
GET MORE INSOLD.  I DIDN'T
THINK TO GET TO MENTION THIS
LAST MONTH BUT I ATTEND AD PLAY
AND I THINK SOME OTHERS MAY
HAVE ATTEND.  BARBECUE
APOCALYPSE.  YOU DIDN'T ATTEND
IT?  NO.  YES?  IT IS A GREAT
PLAY AND REALLY COOL AND VERY
TONGUE IN CHEEK AND HAS A FEEL
GOOD STORY THE END AND I PLAN
TO ATTEND MORE PLAYS AND I
ENCOURAGE OTHERS TO ATTEND
PLAYS AT OUR CAMPUS.  EXTREMELY
WELL DONE AND IMPRESSIVE AND
THEY LET US TOUR THE SET
AFTERWARDS.  THAT WAS AWESOME.
>> THANK YOU. TRUSTEE SALD
SALDIVAR?  THANK YOU.  TRUSTEE
WILSON?
>> THANK YOU. LIKE THE
CHANCELLOR SAYS I WAS ABLE TO
SPEAK AT THE CONVOCATION AND IF
YOU DON'T GO BECAUSE IT WAS
VOLUNTARY YOU MISSED A TREAT.
THE CHANCELLOR, YOU ALL DID A
REALLY GOOD JOB IN CHANGING IT
AND MAKING IT MORE ABOUT THE
PEOPLE THAT ARE HERE AT LONE
STAR AND DEBUTING -- WHICH
DEBUTED -- THE THINGS THAT HE
DID AT THE CONVOCATION BUT IT
WAS REALLY AWESOME AND YOU DID
A GREAT JOB.
>> THANK YOU TRUSTEE WILSON.
LET ME GO TO OUR VIRTUAL
PARTICIPATES.  TRUSTEE STOMA?
>> NO COMMENTS.
>> THANK YOU. TRUSTEE VOG
T
ANY COMMENTS?
>> THE WORK AND THE
INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL.  YEAH,
IT'S GREAT.  I FULLY SUPPORT
ALL THAT WE'RE DOING OUT THERE.
THANK YOU.
>> YES, SIR. THANK YOU. I
HAVE ONE REPORT, LOPE LONE
FOUNDATION REPORT, THE BOARD OF
TRUSTEES HAS AN EMPTY SEAT --
THE BOARD HOSTED A RETREAT THIS
MONTH WHICH I DID ATTEND AND
WAS ABLE TO MEET THEIR NEW
OFFICERS AND DIRECT AND I WOULD
LIKE TO THANK AND CONGRATULATE
THE NEW FOUNDATION OFFERS THAT
STARTED THEIR NEW TERM THIS
WEEK.  (INDISCERNIBLE).
JAMES
HARRISON WITH HARRISON
ARCHITECTS, PASS CHAIR.  THREE
NEW BOARD MEMBERS WERE AVOID.
JENNA TAILOR, GARCIA AND
(INDISCERNIBLE).  I WANT TO
GIVE A THANK YOU TO THE
CHESMARE FOUNDATION THAT HOSTED
200 NURSING SCHOLARSHIPS THIS
YEAR WHICH BRINGS THE TOTAL TO
NEARLY 300 FULL NURSING
SCHOLARSHIPS FUNDED.  THANK
YOU.
>> NOW WE WILL DO REVERSE
ORDER ON COMMITTEE REPORTS AND
I WILL ACTUALLY USE OUR
COMMITTEE CHART.  I'M GOING TO
DO AUDIT AND FINANCE LAST.
>> I DO HAVE A REPORT FOR THE
-- FOR MY COLLEAGUES AND THOSE
HERE.  THE POLIS SEE REVIEW
COMMITTEE CONSISTS OF MYSELF
TRUSTEE MEZA, CAIN AND BROUSSAR
BROUSSARD.  WE MET ON
AUGUST 25TH AND SEPTEMBER 2ND
TO REVIEW POLICY CHANGES
BECAUSE OF WHEN THE MEETING
AGENDA HAD TO BE POSTED YOU
WILL SEE TWO PROPOSED CHANGES
IN TODAY'S AGENDA.
(INDISCERNIBLE) AND VISION
STATEMENT AS ACTION ITEM 21 AND
ACITEM 22.  WE WILL HAVE MORE
PROPOSED POLICY REVISIONS AT
THE OATH BOARD MEETING THAT
WILL INCLUDE ITEMS DISCUSSED
WITH BOARD COUNSEL WITH
PROPOSED POLICY CHANGES WITH
BOARD PROCESSES.  THOSE CHANGES
WILL BE PRESENTED AT THE OATH
BOARD MEETING.  THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU. NEXT COMMITTEE
IS CHANCELLOR GOALS AND
EVALUATION.  TRUSTEE MURILLO.
>> THANK YOU.
RECOGNIZING
THAT COMMITTEE PROVIDES A VOICE
IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF POLICY
AND PROCEDURE, CHAIR SULLIVAN
HAS ASKED -- WHEN THE COMMITTEE
PLANTS TO MEET AND PROCEDURES
WE PLAN TO ADDRESS.  THIS HELPS
US IN MAKING SURE WE PLAN
ACCORDINGLY AND EVALUATE
PRIORITIES, COMMUNICATING WITH
THE CHANCELLOR OF YOURSELF AND
PREPARING FOR FUTURE AGENDA
ITEMS.  BOARD COUNSEL -- BOARD
COUNSEL, THANK YOU FOR HELPING
US KIND OF MODIFY OR CREATE A
COMMITTEE -- COMMITTEE CHARGE.
THE GOALS AND EVALUATIONS
COMMITTEE CHARGE IN GENERAL
JUST MAKES RECOMMENDATION TO
THE FULL BOARD REGARDING OF THE
EVAL AGE OF THE CHANCELLOR'S
PROGRESS ESTABLISHED BY THE
BOARD AND CHANCELLOR AND
REVISIONS TO THE CHANCELLOR'S
CONTRACT.  SO -- THANKS TO A
HARD WORKING GROUP OF COMMITTEE
MEMBERS WE WERE ABLE TO COME UP
WITH AN IMPROVED EVALUATION
PROCESS (INDISCERNIBLE) CREATED
LAST YEAR AND AMONG THOSE
CHANGES THAT WERE RECOMMENDED,
OPENLY A COUPLE OF THEM BUT OUR
COMMITTEE WILL MEET THIS MONTH
AND CLOSED SESSION WE WILL BE
DISCUSSING THE PROPOSED
BOARD
RETREAT OR MEETING.  WE HAVEN'T
REALLY DECIDED WHAT WE ARE
GOING TO CALL IT.  IT IS THE
WHERE THE CHANCELLOR PRESENTS
HIS GOALS TO US BUT THE
COMMITTEE WILL MEET TO KIND OF
PREPARE FOR THAT.  AND WE WILL
GIVE A REPORT ON THAT AT THE
NEXT MEETING.  THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU. GRIEVANCE
COMMITTEE, TRUSTEE WILSON?
THANK YOU.  COMMITTEES, TRUSTEE
CAIN.
>> NO REPORT.
>> COMMUNITY ENGAGELET
COMMITTEE.
>> NO UP DATES AT THIS
MOMENT.
>> TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE.
>> NO UP DATES.
>> AUDIT AND FINANCE,
MS. INTERNET IS GOING TO
COORDINATE MEETING DATE FOR
IMPORTANT BUSINESS SO THE AUDIT
COMMITTEE IS MYSELF TRUSTEE
CAIN AND TRUSTEE SALD
IVAR SO BE
ON A LOOK OUT FOR AN EMAIL FROM
MS. BUNETT.  WE WILL NOW MOVE
TO CONSIDER AGE OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA.  ANY ITEMS TO BE PULLED
FOR DISCUSSION IN SEPARATE
CONSIDERATION.  I WILL START TO
MY RIGHT.
>> . NO.
>> TRUSTEE CAIN.
>> THANK YOU. TRUSTEE STOMA?
>> . NO
>> TRUSTEE VO BRETT THOMPSON?
>> NO. WELL I HATE TO BREAK
THE PATTERN BUT I HAVE ONE ITEM
AND I AM GOING TO PULL ITEM 17
BUT IT IS FOR A POSITIVE
COMMENT.  SO THE FOLLOWING
ITEMS HAD BEEN REMOVED FROM THE
CONSENT AGENDA TORE
SEPARATATION, ITEM 17.  MAY I
HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVAL --
JUST FOR THE RECORD READ THIS
OUT.  ONE, 2, P-H-5, 7,
8, THE,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
16, 18,
19, 20, 21, 22.
>> DO I HAVE A SECOND
>> SECOND.
>> DISCUSSIONS?
>> NO DISCUSSIONS.
>> I WILL DO A ROLL CALL VOTE
AS THE ITEMS CALLED.
(AUDIO
OUT).
>> CALL ITEM 17. MAY I HAVE
A
MOTION FOR ITEM 17?  TRUSTEE
WILSON MAKE A MOTION.  SECOND?
TRUSTEE SALDIVAR SECOND.  AND
IF DR. VIENNE CAN COME UP REAL
QUICK.  I THINK IT IS WORTH
NOTING.  THANK YOU.  ITEM 17
HAS TO DO WITH THE SPECIAL FUND
THAT WAS CREATED FOR REPAIR AND
REPLACEMENT AND THIS I THINK
MIGHT BE THE FIRST EXPENDITURE
UNDER THAT NEW, CAN YOU WALK US
THROUGH THAT REAL QUICK SO THAT
WE CAN SAY THAT BOARD DECIDED
TO DO SOMETHING, ADMINISTRATION
CARRIED IT OUT AND NOW WE ARE
AT THE POINT OF SEEING THE
WORK.
>>DR. VIENNE: IT HAS BEEN A
WORK IN PROGRESS OVER THE LAST
2 FISCAL YEARS.  A LOT OF
COLLABORATION TO CONTINUE TO
EXPAND NOT ONLY THE R AND R
PROGRAM BUT WHAT WE
AFFECTIONATELY REFER AS THE R
AND R PROGRAM.  WHAT WE DID
WITH SUPPORT IS CONTINUE TO
LOOK AT WAYS TO INCREASE THAT.
SO WE HAVE NOT ONLY INCREASED
THE R AND R FUND FROM 10.5 TO
$12.5 MILLION OVER THE PAST TWO
BUNDLE YEARS TO WORK ON OUR OUT
DATED OR AGES MAYBE A BETTER
TERM FACILITY BUT ABC JOHNSON'S
TEAM HAS WORKED TILL GENTLY TO
ALLOCATE FUNDING FOR OTHER
IMPROVEMENTS THAT ARE NOT
COVERED UNDER THE R AND R
STATUTES.  SO CARPET, PAINT,
SIGNAGE AND THINK IN NEED OF
REPAIR.  THROUGH THOSE
COLLABORATIONS WE HAVE
CONTINUED TO SUPPORT THE
PROGRAMS AND CONTINUE TO
SUPPORT THE COMPANY PUSS AND
DIVISION OF THOSE FACILITIES.
>> THANK YOU VERY M. ANY
THOUGHTS.  CHANCELLOR?  OKAY.
WE WILL DO A ROLE CALL VOTE.
ANY FURTHER QUESTIONS.  TRUSTEE
SALDIVAR?  THANK YOU.  TRUSTEE
WILSON?  THANK YOU.  BROUSSARD
IS ABSENT.  TRUSTEE STOMA?
THANK YOU.  WILSON?  NO.  CAIN
>> THANK YOU. AND I VOTE AYE
AS WELL AND THE ITEM PASSES.
QUELL NOW MOVE TO THE FINANCIAL
REPORT.
>>DR. VIENNE: I FELT LIKE I
WAS GOING TO SAY HERE AND I
HAVE MY STICKIES FOR ALL OF THE
OTHER ITEMS.  JUST A REMINDER
OF THE BOARD THIS IS THE CLOSE
OUT OF 11 OUT OF THE 12 MONTHS
FISCAL CYCLE.  WE HAVE MOVED
INTO FISCAL YEAR 26 SO THE
TEAMS ARE WORKING TO CLOSE OUT
FY25 AND OPENING FY36 AND
LOOKING AT FY37.  AS WE ARE
LOOKING AT IDEAS WE ARE TALKING
ABOUT AT THIS POINT THROUGH THE
FINANCIALS OF JULY 31ST.  AS I
ELUDED TO LAST MONTH, STATE
APPROPRIATION AS TRIGGERED
UNDER A 3 PAY.  THE STATE WAS
OFF THIS YEAR AND WE DID NOT
RECEIVE THE STATE A
APPROPRIATIONS IN THE TARGETED
MONTH OF JUNE.  AS I INDICATED
LAST MONTH THEY WERE DOWN AND
SHOWED THE DISTRIBUTION.  THE
STATE -- THE CHECK WAS IN THE
MAIL AS YOU SAY AND IT WAS
RECEIVED AND HAS BEEN
RECONCILED AND WE DID RECEIVE
THE FINAL PAYMENT SO ALL STATE
APPROPRIATIONS WERE RECEIVED TO
THE TUNE OF
$114 MILLION PUTTING IT BACK IN
LINE WITH EXPECTATIONS.  I WANT
TO POINT IT OUT LATER ON THAT
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUES CONTINUE
TO TRACK UNDER AND THAT THE
DIRECTED TO FAST FUNDING.  I
MENTIONED IT SEVERAL TIMES.  WE
HAVE NOT RECEIVED ANY OF THE
FAS FUNDING FOR FALL OR SPRING
SEMESTERS.  ON 8/27 WE DID
RECEIVE THE FALL PAYMENT OF
$2.8 MILLION AND THAT IS NOT
REFLECTED HERE BECAUSE IT IS IN
CLOSE OUT BUT I DID WANT TO SAY
THAT MISCELLANEOUS REVENUES ARE
DOWN DUE TO FAS FUNDING AND
THEY ARE CONTINUING TO TRICKLE
IN BUT MID SEPTEMBER BEFORE WE
RECEIVE EVERYTHING DUE FOR
FY235.  I KNOW THERE ARE LOTS
OF QUESTIONS AND CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT FAS FUNDING AND STATE
APPROPRIATIONS SO END TO
HIGHLIGHT THEM.  WHEN WE LOOK
AT EXPENDITURES YOU CAN SEE
THAT MOST OF ALL ARE IN LINE
WITH WHERE WE HAVE TRACKED THIS
TIME LAST YEAR.  YOU CAN SEE AN
INCREASE IN SALARIES YEAR OVER
YEAR.  THE BIGGEST ATESTAMENT
TO THAT IS A CONTINUED INCREASE
IN COMPENSATION PACKAGES THAT
WE HAVE LOOKED AT AS WELL AS --
WE WERE REPRESENTING THE ACROSS
THE BOARD RAISES THAT WERE
GIVEN AS WELL AS 4% INCREASES.
A LOT OF THE ADDITIONAL ITEMS
ARE TRACKING AND SHOWING UP
THIS TIME OF YEAR SO YOU CAN
SEE YEAR OVER YEAR WE HAVE IN
INCREASE IN SALARIES BUT WELL
IN TUNE WITH WHAT WAS EXPECTED.
WHEN WE ARE LOOKING AT YEAR TO
DATE TIE FINANCIALS FOR
JULY 31ST YOU CAN SEE HERE,
AGAIN, ALWAYS A POSITIVE NOTE
WHEN THE CHARTS EXCEED WHAT WAS
BUNDLED.  WE BUMPED
$513 MILLION AND AS OF THE LAST
DAY IN JULY WE ARE AT
APPROXIMATELY SO 3.8% OF WHAT
WE BUDGETED.  WE WILL EXCEED
BUDGETED REVENUES FOR THIS
YEAR.  AND AGAIN NOT IN TAKING
ANY INCOME THAT WOULD STILL BE
RECEIVED IN AUGUST WHICH WILL
BE REPORTED NEXT MONTH.  WE TIP
TO TRACK WELL BELOW BUDGETED
EXPENDITURES AT THE TUNE OF
78.2 PER% SO AROUND 22% OF
BUDGET AUTHORITY REMAINS IN
MONTH 11 OF 12.  CONTINUE TO
INDICATE ATE 245.  WHEN WE ARE
LOOKING AT THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENT, AGAIN AS I HAVE
ELUDED TO YOU CAN SEE A TOTAL
VARIANCE REPRESENTED HERE IN
THE FORECASTED BUNDLE AND THAT
1 WHAT I DESCRIBED.  WE
ANTICIPATE RECEIVING
$26 MILLION MORE THAN WHAT WAS
BUNDLED THIS FY25 YEAR.  SO IT
IS A GOOD CONCEPT TO HAVE MORE
MONEY THAT BE YOU EXPECTED BUT
WE WANT TO WORK ON GETTING THAT
AS CLOSE TO ACTUALS AS WE CAN.
YOU CAN SEE THE BREAK DOWN OF
WHERE THOSE REVENUE SOURCES IN
THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT.  WHEN
YOU ARE LOOKING AT EXPENDITURES
FOR THIS FINANCIAL STATEMENT WE
HAVE NO SIGNIFICANT VARIANCES
TO REPORT TO THE BOARD AT THIS
TIME.  LOOKING AT THE
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND
FINANCIAL DOCUMENTS IN THE
BOARDTH PACKET YOU WILL WITH A
COPY OF THE BALANCE SHEET,
STATEMENT OF REVENUES AND
EXPENDITURES AND FUND 35 HARVEY
WHICH WE HAVE RECEIVED NO
FUNDING FROM THE LAST REPORT AT
THIS TIME AS WELL AS THE
SUMMARY OF INVESTED FUNCTION.
AS YOU ARE LOOKING AT CLOSE OUT
OF FY WHY 25 WE HAVE A CASH
RESERVE OF $169 MILLION AND WE
WILL SHOW THAT CHANGE AS WE
MOVE IN AND START RECOGNIZING
FY26 NUMBERS BASED ON YEAR END.
ANY OF THESE VARIANCES OR
UNBUNDLED ITEMS WILL ROLE INTO
RESERVES AND INCREASE THIS
CHART FOR NEXT TIME.  HAPPY TO
ANTICIPATE OR ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS THAT THE BOARD OR
CHANCELLOR MIGHT HAVE AT THIS
TIME.
>> THANK YOU. LET ME
PULL THE
BOARD.  ANY QUESTIONS?  THANK
YOU.  ANY QUESTIONS?
INTO NO.
>> QUESTIONS VO BRETT
THOMPSON?  ANY QUESTIONS?
>> NO.
>> THANK YOU. APPRECIATE IT.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND
ACCORDANCE WITH TEXAS OPEN
MEETINGS ACT WILL MOVE INTO
CLOSED ACTION SECTION 551.071,
SECTION 551.072, SECTION
551.0874 AND SECTION
551.076
WILL NOW MOVE INTO CLOSED
>> THANK YOU.
I RECONVENIENCE THIS BOARD
MEETING AT 1:37PM.
ANY SUGGESTED FUTURE AGENDA
ITEMS?
SAY NONE.
WITH NO FURTHER TO DISCUSS THIS
BOARD MEETING IS NOW ADJOURNED
AT 1:37PM.